all right welcome back to micro one can
everybody hear me okay
yes thank you
um good
this week
we
have some more time to discuss sub game
perfection
and
then in the last video we started to
look at games with incomplete
information
or
so far i guess only how we model
incomplete information itself and then
next week we will add games to
the incomplete information
so
let me go
through the three different topics and
answer the most frequently asked
questions through poll everywhere
all right so
the first thing that we analyzed or in
the first video was
games with imperfect recall where
players forget
some kind of information
and we have seen that in these games
mixed strategies do not necessarily have
realization equivalent behavior
strategies and vice versa
so the two examples that show this
difference
was the first one the absent-minded
driver
where
they were trying to get home but we
can't remember
whether we have already passed an exit
on the highway
and
optimally we want to get out at the
second exit but if we can't remember
there's no way that we can catch the
second exit with a pure strategy
because we have only one information set
in a pure strategy we either select to
stay on the highway or to exit which
means we'll either end up at the hotel
or in the bad neighborhood
surprisingly there are nodes in the game
tree that we cannot
reach
by a pure strategy
a behavior strategy is able
to reach home and we see that the
probability to get home is well if
probability of
exiting is x
then we stay on the highway with
probability 1 minus x and then with
probability
x we exit at the second one so in total
with probability
x times one minus x we will exit or
catch the right exit and this is
maximized for x equals to one half
now we already notice
something peculiar about the expected
payoffs here are not linear anymore in x
um
and that's because
we stay in the same information set
twice
so for games with this kind of imperfect
recall whether we forget whether we have
taken a move
the payoffs won't be linear in our
parameterization
and so we will have to um
put it will slightly complicate finding
best response correspondences
any questions about
this example
all right then the second type
of
imperfect recall is where we forget any
information that we have had other than
whether we have taken a move
so in this example here inspired by the
last administration in the us
um
sometimes in the press conference we
don't want to tell the truth to the
citizens
and
then we can
instead of telling a fact we can choose
to tell an alternative fact
now the last
u.s administration was surprisingly bad
at keeping their story consistent
presumably because they forgot the
details of their lie
beforehand and if that is the case if
you have trouble remembering
what you mentioned earlier in a lie
then you would do well choosing a
mixed strategy
because in mixed strategy you can kind
of commit to pure strategy in the
beginning of the game
and you would want to commit to either
the pure strategy um where you both
where you twice tell the truth or
twice
tell a lie
and so there was a typo in the slides uh
last
uh last week so this should be ff and aa
so it's important that we
but we can commit to
lying both times or telling the truth
both times
now a behavior strategy
can only
so behavior strategy either tells
um
the truth with probability one a
consistent line with probability one
or
it will with positive probability
reach
an outcome where there's an inconsistent
line so if we go tell the truth with
probability x
and
we lie with real to 1 minus x and then
here um with probability let's say y 1
minus y
then the only way how we can have a
consistent story is if either x and y
are both one or
x and y are both zero and then we see
um
if we
try to tell the truth sometimes then we
will also include inconsistent lies
and so here
what the player has forgotten is
the action that they have taken they
know they've already
had a press conference they just forgot
what they mentioned in the press
conference
now sorry
why
why can the mix strategy be
f a or a f it could be but we wouldn't
want to choose it
so there are mixed strategies or pure
strategies that are
fa or af
but
the goal is that we tell a consistent
lie with probability one minus x
so we want to live sometimes
but we want to be consistent about it
oh oh okay okay i know the story thank
you
now this brings us to the following
definition of perfect recall where we
have
two things that we want to preclude we
want to preclude that
a
player for forgets whether have taken a
move and this is the first point here so
in any two nodes of an information set
one cannot come before the other
and then the second one looks a bit more
complicated definition but what it means
is we don't forget anything else
so i tried here drawing
a simple game tree that would visualize
that
so a node in a game tree
captures everything that has happened in
the game
so describes completely everything that
is relevant to the game
and if a player knows a note they know
everything that has happened so far
now in this case here
player 2 knows whether player 1 has
taken action a or action b
but at the information set further down
the tree player 2 does not know anymore
whether player 1 has taken a or b
and this
this forgetting or player two forgets in
this way
whenever two notes from the same
information sets
have predecessors in different
so here for any two nodes in the tree
in the same information set the
predecessors have to be in the same
information as well
otherwise they have more information
here than they had here because
previously they were able to distinguish
the two nodes but later they're not so
there's some information
something in the tree that they have
forgotten it could be a move from
somebody else it could be their own move
or it could be a move of nature
and so the definition here says is that
they also have to take the same action
at those nodes
and so if both of them have predecessors
then they have to align the same
information set
and
the same
the same action has to be taken at both
nodes
can you write the x head into the
visualizer the graph oh yes so this here
would be
so here would be x
x prime and this would be x hat
x hat prime
so we start with any information set
containing two nodes
then we say okay there's some
predecessor
of
player two's nodes where player two is
active again
then for that node there must also exist
some other node the predecessor of this
node here
which belongs to the same information
set
and the same actions taken at both
so crucially
the first condition that they belong to
the same information set means they
don't forget anything that's happened
before
before game reaches this information set
the second condition that the same
action has to be taken to reach this
information set means that player 2
doesn't forget the move they took at
this information set
so the
the actions that the information set
about the x-head and x-head pump should
be
the same one the same yeah it has to be
the same one so that they don't forget
um
let me see where i have an eraser here
[Music]
well
i'm not sure
we'll just leave it on there but
what it should be is
this should be the right information set
for it to be perfect for call
and it has to be the same action a
okay
so so actually they are just one line if
there is a perfect recall
i mean i didn't draw other parts of the
office so there could be more actions
here branching off
here
i just wanted to keep the graph as
simple as possible
okay
so ix is
the
the active player at node x
so here we start with an information set
that belongs to some player
so here this would be player two
and
then we look at predecessor knows where
the same player is active
here this means
player
then
let's see how we could so in games of
imperfect recall now
um
mixed strategies and behavior strategies
differ so if we want to find something
perfect equilibria then we would use
different approaches
now
this game has imperfect recall player
one forgets the move they have taken at
the first note and we see that it's
important that
um
the predecessor nodes
so on the previous slide it's important
that
we not only have the condition that they
belong to the same information set but
also that players take the same action
because here the predecessor node is the
same
of both of these nodes but player 1 does
not take the same action
and this means player 1 forgets
the actions they have taken
so
this game has only one sub game
instead of also in perfect equilibria is
the same of all
or this is of all nash equilibrium
now we know how to find nash equilibria
in mixed strategies
we transform the game
into the street strategic form game
and then we find nash equilibria as
usual
so here
um how do we generate this
tree here we see okay if we go
um
let me switch to red
so let's say we want to first
so we just go to the tree and see okay
we have l l
so anything where
both players play
capital l will lead to minus one one
so this is all of these
it doesn't matter what they do at the
other information set the payoff will be
minus one
then we can continue if
if
let's say we want to figure out which
cells we have to fill in with let's say
l
r
then we see that okay this time
the strategy of player 1 is completely
specified but for
player
it's only relevant that they play r so
we have ll and anything where they play
r
and like that we keep filling in the
game
or the the payoffs from the game tree
into our matrix
and this yields mixed equilibrium
how we find that we would parameterize
the
strategy profile and then find um
mutual best response correspondences so
here we would write
all right
so
oh i see because it's the next slide all
right
so here we would then
i don't know have some parameterization
alpha beta gamma and then here 1 minus
alpha minus beta minus gamma
and here we would maybe have x y
z
1 minus x minus y minus c
and we see this will be a lot of work
because we have so many parameters mixed
strategies are typically hard to find or
hard tedious to find
any questions how we would find mixed
nash equilibrium
then for behavior strategies we see that
we can parametrize them with fewer
parameters we only need two parameters
for each player because each player has
only two information sets
now
how do we
find nash equilibria here well
the standard approach is we find the
expected utilities and then we find
mutual best response correspondences
so how do we find the expected utility
well
so how do we end up at -1 1 well
if both players play
um
left so we would have
u1
of sigma
is okay with probability alpha player
one will choose left
and
with
probability
yeah gamma
player two will play left and then we
get minus one so from the first
outcome here we get
alpha times minus gamma
now
player 1 can get 2
if
player two plays r which happens with
probability one minus gamma and then
player one plays
left with probability beta
and so this is the left half of the game
tree
the right half of the game tree
um
okay we get zero if
if player two chooses right
and if player two chooses
so the only way how we can get a
non-zero payoff here is if player two
chooses left and player two chooses
right so we get two
left happens to build the delta and
write with probability 1 minus beta
and we can do the same for player 2.
and we look at relatively similar we go
again left in the game tree
then
plus one if they also play left
and then
they can only get two
if player one chooses right which
happens to probability one minus beta
and then the right side of the game tree
um
well one if
if i two chooses right which happens to
be one minus delta
and then
three
delta
theta
[Music]
so this is how we find nash equilibria
behavior strategies now for from this
point on it's the same as soon as we
have to expect utilities we just find
best just bonds correspondences and um
and
verify where they are consistent
i'm not actually going to carry that out
here because this example would take me
maybe an hour to solve because there's
so many parameters but i just want to
show a large tree so we can see a
difficult example where um
where or how we find the expected
utilities
now you can try to solve it in your free
time if you want additional practice the
result is going to be quite interesting
but
um
i'm not going to solve it here
the question in the chat sorry could we
turn the table into reduced strategic
form all right let's do that
so reduce strategic form means that we
eliminate
any
rows or columns that have completely
identical payoffs
and
in this case there is no such rows or
columns
so this is already the reduced strategic
form
i think there is a typo in the
last two rows because they are the same
but in the extensive form they are not
the same
oh yes there is a typo for sure
um let's see
[Music]
oh yeah those rows are equivalent here
um let's see right right left zero three
oh yeah so i
so this should be
0 3 this should be 2-0
right left left
right
yes
okay yeah now we can all see that there
are no two equivalent rows
okay i'll can i ask a following question
that
the one slides in the
class you showed
we can count the parameters we have to
use in behavior and mixed strategy
can you
show the like the
the equation in
this example
okay
so
um
so for the behavior strategies so we sum
over all
the information sets
and at each information set we need the
sum of
actions minus one
so
so we see in this
example it's two per player because
the sum of actions that follow from the
information set minus 1.
so for each information set we need one
parameter and then there's two
information sets
then for mixed
strategies
um
for mixed strategies
it was
look at how many pure strategies are
there it's essentially the product of
all
of all
information sets
that's how many pure strategies there
are
then we just need one parameter fewer
one parameter fewer because the total
probabilities have to sum up to one
and so this means here three
for
each
because we have two times two minus one
and this becomes way worse if players
have three actions at each node
so in this case here
we would then need four parameters
but here we will need eight
all right so this part here
is the number of pure strategies
so at each information set we can choose
one of those actions
so the possible combinations of your
strategies are that for each information
that we choose any combination of those
actions that are available
so the product of the number of all
those actions that are available is the
number of pure strategies
and then
the probabilities sum up to one so we
have one fewer parameter per player
then then y y three
so here this is
two times two minus one is three
this is
for one player yes for one player for
one type
so we have if we want to count
we the whole game we have to
like three times three to get
okay
so for two players it's now two times
three because each player has
three and how about the behavior
strategy
this is also for each player two so four
in total
as we can see here
four
parameters
two for each player
okay so so the minus one is in the
in the sigma
okay
thank you
good
then
any questions about imperfect recall
or there's a question how do we turn
mixed strategy to behavior strategies
well if we have perfect recall
then
let me actually
show this here
if we have perfect recall
um
then
here this intuitive approach works
so what is
so if we have perfect recall then each
pure
or each terminal payoff can be reached
by pure strategy
and then
the mixed strategy so if we start with
the behavior strategy profile we can see
with what probability is each terminal
now reached
each terminal node in a game of perfect
or call corresponds to a pure strategy
and then
we choose that pure strategy um
with the probability with which player i
needs to take all the right decision to
end up at this node
so we look through the tree and we
multiply all the moves by player i
um to reach at that terminal node
and for the behavior strategy profile we
um
look at
all
the strategies that go through this node
here let's say
we see what with what probability are
they selected in the mixed strategy
profile and then we know that has to be
the probability
um
are we divided by the probability that
the information that is reached so the
conditional probability of reaching this
node given this node
is
how we would find the behavior strategy
all right then existence of something
perfect equilibria
i was asked to go through the proof
again and i figured we can again
visualize it in our game tree
so
the idea that it was that we set up this
inductive argument because we solve it
backwards from the tree
and suppose we have solved it for all
the smaller subgames we have shown that
there exists a stopping perfect
equilibrium for all the sub games of
this game
and how do we construct a subtlety
perfect equilibrium of the entire game
well by nash's existence theorem we know
that there has to be an ash equilibrium
in mixed strategies
in the coons theorem
we know that it has a realization
equivalent
behavior strategy profile so that is
also a nash equilibrium
because this is a game of perfect recall
now on the path we don't have to change
anything so the path here in this
example
is this
so on the path we don't have to change
anything because a nash equilibrium
is already something perfect on its path
and then off the path we have to make
sure that the off path continuations are
credible so that we get a sub-computer
equilibrium
how do we do that well let me draw the
path again
how do we do that well for all the
maximal sub games that are off the path
we
change
the strategy profile to a subtly perfect
equilibrium in that subject
and we know it exists because
it's a smaller subgame and we have this
inductive argument
so if we replace whatever the
continuation was with a sub-game perfect
equilibrium in those three sub-games
then
the resulting strategy profile is a
sub-imperfect equilibrium
now how can we see this what is the
definition of a sub-game perfect
equilibrium it is that in every sub game
the restriction to every subgame is a
nash equilibrium
[Music]
so
in those sub games we have chosen
a sub imperfect equilibrium
as a continuation so in particular it's
a nash equilibrium
and not only that
it's a
nash equilibrium in any
subgame thereof because we have chosen
the continuation from here
is a sub game perfect equilibrium so by
definition
in any sub game
the behavior is a national equilibrium
and it works on the path
as well so for for this subgame here
it also works because um
yeah in any in the game itself it's a
nash equilibrium
because it's on the path but
also in any subgame of it by
construction
so the idea is really we start with the
nash equilibrium on the path we leave it
the same
and we just replace the off path
continuations with
sums of imperfect equilibrium
and by backward induction we know that
those exist in the sub games
this means that the payoffs in the
entire game have not changed at all
because we only changed off path
behavior
and in particular it's still a nash
equilibrium in the entire game
and this is what was formalized here
in the
proof so those are all the strict sub
games so strict sub game is
any sub game that is strictly smaller
that are off the path
and
this means maximal
so in this case those maximal sub games
were this one this one
this one
the maximal sub games off the path
and those are the ones where we
we replace the continuation with some
sub game perfect continuation
and then the argument at the bottom
shows that it's of imperfection because
on the path
the nash equilibrium is
optimal and
by definition of a sub-imperfect
continuation equilibrium in any
continuation game
it has to be a nash equilibrium
so what i want you to take away from
this proof
is
we can leave the path unchanged
and just replace the off path
continuations with something that is
credible
uh can i ask the definition of strict
subgame
yeah so strict
simply means that it's not the same
so a proper subgame could be the game
itself
yes so a straight sub game is any proper
sub game
that is not the game itself
so it's a strictly smaller set of nodes
and the original
proof you
denote g 0 and gk so
what is the 0 to gk in this game
so that's
so g 0 would be those sub games that
don't have any other sub games
so
g 0 would be here oops here
here
um i guess here
and
this one
yeah those will be g0
and then g1 would be
d1 would be
nothing actually
but g3 would then be this one
because
orders will be g2 g2
this would be g2
and
g3
i guess sorry why why g2 is that one
because he has two subgame
yes because he has two streaks of games
so
in the proof we denoted g
k
has
k strict sub games
[Music]
so here it has two strict sub games and
the one to the right also has two strict
sub games
and then we just keep increasing k and
eventually we're all the way through the
tree because the tree is finite
so there is a problem that's the k is
not a
like there can be g0 but no g1 and half
g2
well so deductive hypothesis is that
for all
g
l
l smaller equal k
has
sp
[Music]
but
we want to prove that l plus one is
satisfied we are we want to show that k
plus 1 is satisfied if it is satisfied
for all
g l below k
but k plus 1 can
not
be exist in some case
might be i mean if there are no sub
games
that have k plus one strict sub games
then it's trivially satisfying
ah
so a statement on an empty set is always
true
okay okay
thank you
okay
that's about the proof of
sub game perfection
then
as an application of these extensive
form games we briefly looked at
multi-stage games
which streamlines
or put some additional structure on the
game
um that makes it much more tractable as
we have seen
so
in general
a multi-stage game is
an extensive form game where players
play a sequence of staticky games
and in general the sequence could depend
on time and in a repeated game which is
the most common case that we look at
the games are the same
for all
periods
and we have seen
this uh
the climate agreement example as well as
the prisoners with revenge
and
we can now use the fact that the
continuation game
in each period looks exactly the same
so here
the continuation gain
[Music]
of the period one is
exactly the same given the payoffs that
are already earned
and then this means that they all have
the same
subgame perfect equilibrium
so you only need to solve one of them to
know
the equilibrium continuation after all
of them
specifically
in the example
of
the prisoner's dilemma with revenge
we know that in the second period
there are
exactly
two nash equilibria or two pure strategy
nash equilibria
and
if we look for pure strategies up in
perfect equilibria
then
one of those two continuations has to be
played no matter what players play in
the first period
by sub game perfection
now so let's see how we can
incentivize players to stay silent well
the way the game is set up the idea is
that
if they say silent then
then they go for it they go to jail for
a year and afterwards nothing bad
happens um the past is the past
if they testify then
the person that was testified against
will join a gang
and in order to protect them from the
other gang um the person who testified
also has to join the game
so that's in the continuation um where
they both join a gang
and
the idea is that we can turn this into
an equilibrium by
requiring that
at the beginning let's call this h
naught
the players play ss
and
the continuation to ss
is
bp
the good equilibrium
and
and after any other anything else has
been played in the first period
um we'll play the bad equilibrium
and we've verified that this is an
equilibrium
because
following
the sp so following
sigma yields well minus one in the first
period
plus
well zero in the second
and this is better than a continuation
where we get zero
[Music]
and then minus three in the second
so here we have looked at the case where
the discount factor is one if the
discount factor
is not one
then we see that this is the case if and
only if delta is larger or equal than
one-third
so if we are
the players have to be sufficiently
patient if they don't care what happens
to them next year
if they have terminal cancer and they
only live for one more year
then
they'll stay then they'll testify so
they don't go into jail at all
now
the main question that i received on
paul everywhere is how can we use this
to find all equilibria so let me go over
that again
if we look at how incentives are
provided
then
so here this is this is on the path
and here this is
after a deviation by one player
so
in this construction here it did not
matter at all what the continuation of t
t is
so
sigma t t
could be
the good equilibrium
and it doesn't matter for incentives
because it cannot be reached
by a deviation by only one player
in an equilibrium we look at
deviations by one player given that the
opponent does not change their strategy
and so if the opponent does not change
the strategy then
this history cannot be reached by a
deviation of any player
and
yeah so this tells us that there are two
sub-imperfect equilibria or pure
strategies of perfect equilibria in
which ss is played in the first period
so we see
so
supporting s
and let's write i guess
a for any action
we need that s a
triggers the good equilibrium
and
ta
triggers the bad equilibrium
and a could be either s or t
so
because
um
the benefit from
[Music]
deviating is always one
now how do we support
testifying
in equilibrium
well testifying is a dominant response
so
we're willing to testify unless we're
getting punished
for testifying
so this means that
so if the good equilibrium is played
then for sure incentives are satisfied
because we get the best possible outcome
of the game
or we're also willing to
testify if
even if we're punished but if also
silence is punished
so if it's the same equilibrium
regardless of
of which action i choose then i'm
willing to testify
and then
we have
used these two observations to find all
equilibria in one go
um
i guess let me continue here
so
we've argued as
there's two equilibria
then st
right from the previous
uh
observation we need we know that
in order for player 1 to play s
we need to reward
player 1
which requires
that
[Music]
yeah player 1 is punished if they
deviate
and
does this provide sufficient incentives
for player two it does because we've
argued if
testifying is rewarded then it doesn't
matter what happens if they deviate
because
even if if they're rewarded for ss
then t was the best response and they
are willing to choose t
and if ss is punished then
player 2 is especially willing to
testify
so here
can be anything
and the off path
action profile
oh
it can also be anything
and so we see force pure strategies of
imperfect equilibrium
so simply about thinking which ones can
be reached by unilateral deviation
so
symmetry tells us that ts
also has four spe
and then tt
well we need to
incentivize
testifying
and we have seen that we can do this
either by attaching
rewards to testify
then it does not matter what the other
strategy pro what the other
continuations are so this gives us eight
spe
or
if
testifying is punished then also
unilateral deviations have to be
punished
otherwise
players would be willing to deviate and
stay silent
so
why is ss unrestricted up here well if
we go back to how we incentivize how we
support testifying
then
if
testifying is rewarded
then
it's incentive compatible to testify
regardless of what the continuation is
if they stay silent maybe let me add
some numbers here um
so here
let's say this case
then
for player two so
u
two
yes sigma
is
we'll testify in the first period gives
them zero if the other one stays silent
and then
they are rewarded in the next period so
also zero
and this is larger or equal than if they
also stay silent minus one
plus zero
and
if
saying sound is punished
then it gets even worse
[Music]
so if player 1 gets their favorite
payoff in both periods then
it doesn't matter what the continuation
after deviation is right we're
we can be at most as well off in period
two
um
as we already are so
we are willing to testify
and that's the same idea here
if
testifying is rewarded it does not
matter what what happens in the rest of
the tree because we get both times our
favorite payoffs
so we're definitely willing to follow
that strategy profile
sorry can you explain it again why we
have eight here
yeah so
[Music]
if we follow the strategy profile
right then we get zero in the first
period plus zero in the second
and this the maximal
[Music]
utility players can get in this game
right so both times zero is the best
possible outcome
oh i messed up here this is minus nine
but so if we deviate
if we deviate
then
well you get minus 10
the first period and punishment of zero
or
if deviating is punished then we get
minus ten minus three
sorry why here that
the deviation will be punished because
you raise the gg into
next sentence
also these are two different cases case
one
so if
testifying is rewarded then it does not
matter whether silence or testifying
or doesn't matter where the silence is
punished or rewarded
because if it's rewarded we get -10
which is less than the on path payoff
and if it's punished then we get minus
13 which is also less
yes but why 8 here
because
all three other action profiles are
unrestricted so
we have
sigma s s
sigma s t
sigma t s
can be anything
so we have three combinations or three
or two choices for three possible
histories so 2 to the power of 3 is 8.
so up here
we have 4sb because we have 2 choices
after two histories and now we have two
choices after three histories so that's
eight possibilities
now the crucial part here is that
in repeated or multi-stage games
all we need to do to solve the rest of
the tree is we have to look for
the largest payoff differential in the
sub game so find
to see whether we can
support
some behavior on the path
so in the prisoner's revenge game the
payoff differential was three
and so we can prevent any deviations
that give them
or any instantaneous deviation that give
them less than three
so if they were rewarded here for
testifying
if they got three here instead
then
the benefit of testifying would be for
the immediate benefit so we couldn't
support silence anymore because the
payoff differential in the second period
is not large enough to prevent
deviations
yeah for the sub game we find the
largest payoff differential that we can
support on equity in equilibrium and
then we can find
all the action profiles that we can
support in the previous stage of the
game
good
before
we move on to incomplete information now
one other frequent question i had in
paul everywhere
was about
the solution to
to assignment three the last period of
the last period of the
what was it the bargaining game
so how do we show that
the responder has to accept with
probability one in equilibrium and i
thought that's probably quite
instructive to show so let me show that
here
um
so in the last period
um for simplicity let's say
t is odd so t odd
which is black
this means player 1 proposes
x
and
2 responds
all right so if
x is
smaller than one
then
player two receives
one minus x and this is
larger than what they get if they reject
so the unique best response is to
is to accept
if player 1
proposes
1 then player 2 gets nothing
and so players player 2's best responses
are
accept
if
x
smaller than one
and
and some mixed strategy that we can
parameterize with probability of
accepting y
now
in a sub imperfect equilibrium
player one takes this into account when
they make their proposal so let's write
down player one strategy
or play one's payoff if they propose x
and
player two
best responds to x
so we have to distinguish two cases if x
is smaller than one then player two will
always accept so this means player one
gets x
if
x is smaller than one
and it's x y
if x is equal to one
and
what does this mean where is this
function maximized well
the function if x is
less than one
then
it will look like
this
and you see that player one does not
have a best response if player two
continues with anything other than y
equals one
so this is why smaller one
and so
play one's best response
i guess 2 probability y
would be
empty
and 1
[Music]
if y is 1.
so crucially here we first solve the
best response for player 2
and we plug that in
to player one's utility because player
one anticipates
how player two
responds
and then we maximize player one's
utility and we see that in some cases it
does not have a maximum so this means
that those responses cannot be part of a
subgame perfect equilibrium
okay
i think this addresses most questions
about
sub game perfection
and multi-stage games
let's now
let's now move on to
models with incomplete information
and
i just wanna
now that we have introduced everything
in the video already i just wanna give a
different
summary or introduction
to
the different components that we have
so
the state of nature
is
really just the
payoff relevant states that are unknown
so this means that the utility function
by the players are functions always from
the set of action profiles and the set
of states of nature
to
whatever utility they get so payoffs are
described
or characterized by the state of nature
and we use theta to denote the state of
nature so
this theta here is
the random variable so the unknown
quantity and then it lies
in the set of capital theta all possible
values and each
specific value that it can take we
denote by small theta
what are some examples
so
a very typical example
is
if the state of nature is
specific or is a play of characteristic
by each player
so for example in a cournot or a
bertrand competition we could have the
firm's unit cost
be there
the unknown to the other players
in which case theta i the cost
of firm i
is
i's own payoff relevant state
and here a firm's utility does not
depend on the cost of another directly
only indirectly through what this will
prompt in the other firm's production
then in an auction
the valuation of a player's good
is the payoff relevant state
and again it does not matter to me how
much you value the good other than
through how much you bid in the auction
and then you've seen
the
card game avalon uh the player's
alignment determines their payoffs
and
in the mechanics example
um the state of repair
was the payoff relevant state for
the customer and we see that there's a
difference between the first three
examples and the last one so here
players oh let me write this
players know
their characteristic
so this for the first three games
but
in the second one the player does not
know the customer does not notice it
over pair
so only describing the payoff relevant
state is not enough we have to describe
what the players know
about pay of relevant state
this is done by the types or information
sets
and here we used t
for
i guess the unknown quantity of the
types
we used small tau
for
a typic or one specific information set
or type
and
instead of all types was then
uh large t
yeah so the difference really
is
state of nature characterizes payoff
types
characterizes knowledge
everything clear so far
how do we use our knowledge to
deal with the uncertainty in the world
well we form beliefs
so
a belief in general is
any distribution over
the amount of uncertainty that i have in
the model in the mechanics game it would
be whether i need the repairs or whether
the mechanic is honest
so in general it's a distribution over
well the pay of relevant states but also
the other players beliefs
and
so here um
the beliefs of my own type are
deterministic because i know my own type
now we've generated these beliefs from a
common prior which tells us
sort of the initial if we didn't have
any information about the setting this
is what we would believe
and then we update
given our information given our type we
update our beliefs to
the posterior beliefs
so in the avalon setting um the common
prior is
that we shuffle the roles and we
distribute it to the players right and
everybody knows that even if you don't
play the game you know that
if you play the game once you look at
your card
you know more you learn your type
then you update your beliefs about the
others based on the information that
comes with it
in the mechanics example the prior is
you know sort of the population
distribution of honest and dishonest
mechanics
and
how many
repairs are extensive repairs
and then we update that once we go to
the mechanic and we receive information
about our car
based on what the mechanic tells us
now there is
um
a special case that is often studied in
economics which is if players types are
independent
if a player's type is in the if they are
independent then
that means that
i don't learn anything about your type
from my type
so a typical example would be an auction
setting
but just by knowing how much i value a
good i learn nothing about how much you
value the good if your type is
independent
and this
often makes it a lot simpler because now
beliefs
which in general are a distribution over
states and types
are in this case only a distribution
about
the payoff relevant state
and many many examples that you'll see
are of this specific kind
now this was not everything that we've
introduced we've also introduced these
states of the world what's the purpose
of those
a state of the world
is like a node in a game tree it
describes
every possible state our model could be
in
in particular it determines
completely the information that the
players have and the state of nature the
payoff relevant state
and the primary purpose for it
is that it allows us to correlate
players knowledge quite easily
so
we could always choose the set of states
of the world
as
simply
the state of nature and then
a type profile for all the players
but in many applications there is a
simpler way to parametrize the model
like in avalon
in avalon
the set of all possible
states of
nature would be all possible
combinations of alignments
and then
we would have to consider also all the
beliefs that the players can have
but we can observe that
there are only ten possible
distributions of alignments in a
five-player game
so we can choose
the set of states of the world much much
smaller
than this large space
and this makes the analysis much simpler
so
the role of the states of the world is
simply to correlate
players knowledge about
either each other's information or about
the payoff relevant state
then let me talk about
let's go back to the example of the
mechanic
and
try to understand what is going on here
so we have the payoff relevant states
are whether our car needs repair or not
but we actually don't know
[Music]
and
since we don't know
we represent our knowledge using
information sets using types
and so the information that we have here
is
our information after we hear a
recommendation by the mechanic
to
whether we should do extensive repairs
or minimal repairs
and this
gives us two information sets so if
they recommend the repairs then we think
that either
the mechanic is honest and we do need
the repairs or the mechanicist is honest
and will tell us that we need repairs
regardless of whether we need them or
not
and if we wanted to
describe this without states of the
world then we would have
and we would have
two times two times
four possible states that we would have
to consider because to describe each
other's
knowledge about
um but their other players knowledge and
about
the state of nature and each other's
knowledge
and i think you know this visualizes
quite nicely what the different roles
are um
the states of the world parameterize the
model
then
theta is what is relevant for payoffs
and information sets describe the
player's knowledge
in this example we see that the mechanic
has four possible types
because they have four information sets
so they can choose a different action
for each information set
here we've just assumed that they choose
the same action for three of them
there are two more special cases that i
want to mention so the first one is if
it's what we call payoff types
this would be if the only information we
have is our own payoff characteristic
that could be the costs in the corner
competition that could be
um
that could be our own valuation in
in an auction and in that case we don't
necessarily need to introduce the
notation t we can just say okay theta
captures both our pair of
characteristics and our knowledge
now we may still use states of the world
to correlate
the different payoff types
and then lastly the simplest possible
case is where we have independent payoff
types
so not only
is the only thing we know are payoff
characteristic but also we don't know
anything about each other's knowledge
and
again we have the two important examples
we have auctions with independent
valuations or
competition with independent cost
and in that case we don't need
omega either and then we just have
say the payoff characteristics by the
players
i will add payoffs to this
this week
but for now let's see if we can use this
belief space to describe the following
setting in a belief space
the story is that
the government has found an oil field
and wants to auction it off to
two companies to two oil companies who
might want to purchase the oil field
now the companies they don't know
whether the oil field
on the value of the oil field is high
medium or low it could be all of the
three with probabilities one quarter one
half and one quarter so medium is the
most likely
now in order to
give the company some information about
the oil field the
the government offers a free exploration
of the oil field where they can do one
drilling and see
updated beliefs about the quality of the
oil field
and the information that they get could
either be
if you get a good signal a high signal
or a low signal about the value
and we suppose that
the signals are not independent here
that both explorations
provide optimistic beliefs to the
companies if the oil field is in need of
high value both signals are low if the
oil fails of low value and exactly one
signal is high if the oil field is of
medium value
then how would we write down the belief
space here
what's the what sort of sort of the
fundamental parameterization that we
need
well
there's
two players with two possible signals
and
all four possible combination signals
are possible so we definitely need four
states of the world
is that enough to describe
also the dependence
on the state of nature
and the answer is yes because
exactly if one signal is high
then we have we have theta m and if
exactly if both signals are high we have
theta h and if both signals are low then
theta l
so we would start with
our states of the world we would write
okay this is maybe
let's write h
then we would have
hl
and lh
and
ll so those are the signals that the
players get
so we can already draw the player's
information sets
so
i guess we use gold for player one
although it might not be visible so
let's use orange
so player one well if they receive
the high signal
that's their type
and they can also receive the low signal
and for player 2
flare 2 receives the low signal
that's the information that the players
receive
and
now i suppose in green
we can indicate
the state of nature so in this case here
is low
these two cases
it's medium
and then high
[Music]
now from this belief space we can read
off anything that the players
know about each other about the states
of the world
and we can use this to start
finding
how they should act optimally but we
will get to that next week
how we describe asian games
any questions about models with
incomplete information
if not
the last thing remaining
to do is to go through the questions
here
we had three possible games and we had
to decide whether they are perfect or
called so let's um
let's look at those
um
so
the game to the left is actually the one
that we parameterized earlier today and
it has imperfect recall because player
one forgets which move they take
then the game to the middle
is
perfect or call because it's perfect
information
and the last one here
is also perfect recall because
player 3
does not
forget anything about the tree
because
this is the first time they act
and
in the definition of perfect recall
the second condition is always satisfied
in a player's first information set
right it says
at any predecessor nodes of player three
they have to lie in the same information
set but there are no predecessor nodes
of player three
so essentially if it's the first time we
act we can't have forgotten anything
and
player three does not forget to that
i've taken a move because neither node
is before the other so this is a game of
perfect recall so only the game to the
left is imperfect recall
so 60 correct
yes correct the vast majority
and
this is also perfect recall so this is
yes because
player three acts the first time and so
they can't have forgotten anything
then realization equivalence um
it's not enough that
um
both of them are best replies
[Music]
it's also necessary
that they don't affect the distribution
over nodes so that they don't affect the
incentives of other players
so this is false
ah there's a question in the chat to all
three have perfect recall no the left
one has imperfect recall
so this is imperfect
perfect
[Music]
consider game g which has imperfect
recall only because players may forget
but they have already taken a move
and such a game is guaranteed to have an
speed behavior strategies and this is
true very good to all those who figured
it out
and the important part to notice is that
for existence of subject perfect
equilibrium we only needed one direction
we only needed that mixed strategies
have realization equivalent behavior
strategies we didn't actually need the
converse
so
yeah that's good enough
for existence of something perfect
equilibrium
[Music]
then moving on to multi-stage games
if
the action profile taken after each
history
is a nash equilibrium
then the resulting strategy profile is a
soft game perfect equilibrium
the answer is
no this is false
and
the reason is that the continuation is
the continuation profile
can provide incentives for players to
deviate
and this can be illustrated quite well
in our prisoner revenge game
so here the nash equilibria are
these
and
or pure strategy nash equilibria and we
have seen that if
if we
punish
testifying and reward silence then
players will have an incentive to
deviate
so if sigma
tt
is
gg
then player 2 will have an incentive to
deviate
player 1 has an incentive to d8
and this strategy profile satisfies
all the requirements in the question
right it's a static nash equilibrium
after each history but it's not the
subject perfect equilibrium because
we reward players for deviating from the
nash equilibrium of the first period
sorry the the question mentioned that
every period but the
tt is only the first period
but the tt is only appears in the first
period but the question
requires that
the sigma have to be
every period
oh but it's also in the second period
right those are nash equilibria
ah
okay
but the thing is
if there is more than one continuation
equilibrium
we can incentivize players to deviate
from the nash equilibrium in the
previous
period
okay so the sigma contains the tt and
the bb or gg
yeah so a strategy profile is a map from
all the possible histories
to the available actions
and let's say if it's pure strategy then
it's just a
and
yeah so in this case there are five
possible histories
yes the statement
so in a repeated game this is
the same answer to the question
um that was a question in the chat
for the same reason we can
incentivize players to deviate
by attaching punishments to
choosing a nash equilibrium and rewards
for deviating
so in the
in the
what was it
private agreement we can construct the
same thing um
we can
prevent them from playing zero zero in
the first period
if we attach
the good continuation equilibrium after
they deviate to v
so here we could write
sigma in the beginning is vb
sigma vv
is vv
sigma
v m
is
m and then
player 2 will have an incentive to dba
right
if we modify the payoffs in the climate
agreement model
then
the the efficient outcome can no longer
be supported in a certain perfect
equilibrium
and to see whether this is true we only
have to look at the payoff differential
that we we can get for continuation
equilibrium so the payoff differential
here is 2.
so we can only prevent deviations
that give them a reward of less than two
in the first period
and so if a b gives seven that's an
immediate benefit of three
so we cannot prevent the deviation
so the answer here is false
because the instantaneous benefit is
three
but
the payoff differential of continuation
in equilibria is two we cannot prevent
um
the players from deviating to va so we
cannot support aea
so it is true because the question say
can no longer support ah correct yes
thank you
yes correct we solved this earlier today
for delta large or equal to one third
then
how many types does the next chat
mechanic have
the mechanic has four types because
they're four information sets
if players receive information twice
they update their beliefs via base rule
twice that is correct
there's nothing special about
reading information a second time
we just use bayes rule whenever we
receive new information
and
then
lastly
what are
the beliefs in the avalon game
and yeah one half the most frequent
answer is correct um
let me go over how we can find this here
so we asked about
i close the question
let me see
in state
eeg player three's beliefs about player
one's alignment okay let's go
eeg
is this state here
player three does not know state of the
world player three's information set is
not a singleton
and
we look for player 1's alignment
and so player 1 is either
good or evil so
here let's say they are evil
with
with what probability well we we sum up
all the probabilities
with which player three can believe that
the true state belongs to this event
that
player one is evil
and it's one half
now the reason why we don't include this
one here
is because it belongs to a different
information set
so player 3 knows this is not a possible
state because player 3 knows their own
alignment
good
any additional questions
now the good news is
that you've essentially learned anything
that you will need to know in this
course
so
now it's just different possible
applications of the concepts you know
and
the only concepts that we need there are
three of them in this class we need to
know how to find mutual best response
correspondences
we need to know how players update their
beliefs and that's given via bayes rule
and then
that players look ahead
which means we solve a game backwards
through the tree
and all the other games that will follow
bayesian games
dynamic bayesian games we solve them
with the same three principles so if you
get really familiar with all these tools
right now then you'll do very well even
up until the end of the class
good
i wonder a question in the in the chat i
wonder why the mechanic has four types
why not two honest and dishonest so
the reason here is that
um
is that
a type
the number of types is always the same
as the number of information sets
type in the game theoretic sense means
it really describes the player's
information and so here even though in
colloquial language we would say okay
honesty or dishonesty is the mechanics
type in a game theoretic sense it's the
amount of information they have
and
the there there are four information
sets of four types
so
in the game theory sense the type
includes their knowledge about the car
which could either be repair or not
repair
any other questions
i see someone mentioned in
or asked in the examples
the three prisoners problem explained in
the language of beliefs and base rule
so the three prisoners problem is
mathematically equivalent to the monty
hall problem
so instead of choosing a car you choose
whether you'll be freed from prison
um so actually in that case it's
equivalent to what we've already studied
but in general if you have an example
that you would like me to look at
you need to mention it on poll
everywhere the night before the class so
i have time to prepare if you only
mention this in the morning
then
then i won't have time to to prepare a
specific example that you ask for
good
if so the questions about the proof of
kuhn's theorem i did not address here if
you have those questions because it's
not exam relevant
please just come to the office it'll be
easier to explain in an office hour um
the details of that were proof
good
[Music]
then
if there are no additional questions
that will be it
um
so office hours always
after class until 4 20
and on monday
evening
after your
macro is it macro
as your macro pa session
so monday's typically i think it's nasty
metrics but here is issue
on monday
yes to your health
so after econometrics ta session the
idea is you you will ask the reason why
i have monday and wednesday is
monday the idea is you ask about the
assignment which is due on tuesday and
wednesday after class is any additional
questions that i did not have time to
address in the class
yeah and there will be starting now up
until 4 20.
good